Project Zephyrus Guidelines


Project Overview
Step-by-Step Workflow
“Interesting” Criteria
Grading Criteria


Project Overview
For this pilot phase of Project Zephyrus, you will create complex questions, answers, and explanations for images containing one or more scientific charts.


On the Snorkel Expert Platform, you will see:
1. An image on the left side containing one or more charts.
2. Empty fields on the right that need to be filled.


The task is to analyze the chart(s) and, if they are sufficiently “interesting”, come up with a complex question and answer pair.
Step-by-Step Workflow
Please see the UI Walkthrough for many additional details and screenshots.
Submission
In Submission, you will be shown an image of 1+ charts/plots of some kind. Your task is to generate a complex QA pair with appropriate units based on the image.


1. Determine if the chart is interesting or not, skip it if not
2. Generate a complex question and precise answer using Excalidraw
3. Fill out the units for the answer
4. Indicate the type of answer
   1. Please note - “Inherently Multiple Choice” does not mean a literal multiple-choice question with given answer options. It just means that the answer comes from a discrete set of choices and cannot take any value. Do not give multiple choice answer options on any question.
5. Fill out AHT
6. Submit task
Review
In Review, you will be shown the chart(s) and corresponding question from a submitted task. Your task is to generate a precise answer to the given question. Your workflow mirrors the Submission workflow, with the one exception that the question will be given to you instead of you creating it.


1. Come up with a precise answer using Excalidraw
2. Fill out the units for the answer
3. Indicate the type of answer
4. Fill out AHT
5. Submit task


Do not edit the question in the review stage.


Adjudication
In Adjudication, you will be shown the original question, answers from submitter and reviewers (including units), and answer type. Your task is to use this submitted/reviewed data to either accept the task or send it back for revision.


1. Look at the answers - determine if at least two out of three answers are within 10% of each other
   1. If there is not agreement between at least two answers, one being the submitter’s, then the task must be sent back for revision with comments that the answers do not match.
   2. Agreement includes all of the following:
      1. Answer value
      2. Units
      3. Type of Answer
2. If at least two answers align, then solve the question yourself and see if your answer aligns with the two (or more)
   1. If your answer does not align, then the task should be sent back for revision with comments that your answer differed.
3. If your answer agrees with at least two others, accept the task, fill out AHT, and submit.
“Interesting” Criteria
Chart images must be sufficiently “interesting” to generate good QA pairs. To determine if a chart is interesting or not, use the below criteria as guidelines (not strict requirements) for an interesting chart:
1. Axes are clearly marked and have ranges, titles, and units, if applicable.
2. Chart is readable and elements of the chart can be clearly made out.
3. Chart does not represent simple functions/trends (e.g. linear, cosine, etc.).
4. Chart should represent some meaningful relationship between elements.
5. Not necessary, but helps if there are multiple values/plots in same image.
Note: Charts in other languages (ex. German, French, Russian) can be marked as interesting as long as they fit the criteria above.


Avoid:
* Charts without clear labels.
* Charts that show simple functions.
* Charts that show simple trends.
* Blurry images
* Cut-off Charts/Graphs
Examples
Not interesting
Too simple of trends
	  

	Too simple of functions
	  

	No labels
	  

	Complex image, but simple trends
	  

	  

	  

	  

	



  

	

Interesting
Nicely labeled, several related panels
	  

	Only one chart, but sufficiently complex and labeled with a non-trivial representation
	  

	Many values/plots on same panel
	  

	Grading Criteria
The created questions should:
1. Be complex and not straightforward to answer, requiring extraction from and reasoning across several elements from the image. 
   1. Follow these guideline criteria on complexity:
      1. Question requires analyzing 3+ regions of the image
      2. Question requires at least two calculations or two reasoning steps
      3. Question requires reasoning over relationship between multiple data points
      4. Avoid questions that are overly complex (i.e. requiring 5+ reasoning steps) - especially in terms of mathematical computation. Math operations should be limited to one per question - i.e. you can ask for a ratio, or you can ask for a difference. Do not require too many mathematical steps to the point that accuracy is very difficult (i.e. asking the difference between 2 ratios).
2. Cover multiple different domains, which are determined by the provided images.
3. Require reading intermediate values to answer, including those that are not explicitly labeled in the image.
4. Not be able to be solved without looking at the image.
5. Potentially require comparing different plots in the same image.
6. Potentially require reading values from plots, particularly those that are not explicitly labeled
7. Questions should not be multiple choice or contain multiple parts.


The answer should be numeric and verifiable. The question should have one objectively correct answer that is not open to interpretation. Free text/sentence-type answers are not permitted.